About Lucidity
--------------
Lucidity was the working name for a music software project which has been
abandoned. I have released the source in case others find it useful or
inspiring, though the project never reached a functional beta release.

The Idea
--------
Lucidity was conceived in summer 2009. The initial concept was to create a
realtime sequencer, where the timeline moved from right to left. The user
would place "blocks" in the timeline, which would be played when they reached
the left side of the screen. Thus, a DJ would be planning out mixes 2-3 songs
in advance instead of simply jumping from one track to the next.

Death of a Project
------------------
So, what happened? Well, as always, not enough time. I'm a fulltime
programmer, and trying to do more code in my spare time is tough, to say the
least.

Furthermore, a new DJ software called "The One" seems to offer most of
Lucidity's original vision. I'm optimistic that it will solve the problem
which I was hoping to solve.

Good Ideas
----------
There are some ideas from Lucidity which I still would like to incorporate
into other projects. First, I'm still drawn to making search a key feature of
content-based software. Make the search capabilities smart, fast, and nearly
psychic. And make them easily accessible. I drew much inspiration from Chrome
in this regard.

I also like the idea of remapping the keyboard to make obvious keys more
useful, and breaking convention with standard key bindings when they don't
make sense. Much inspiration here came from IntelliJ, which for instance
remaps ctrl+n to something more useful than creating a new file.

Also, the standard keystrokes such as ctrl+q and ctrl+w do not make sense in
software which should not be accidentally quit or closed. Same goes with the
spacebar in music software, though this is much more useful when composing
than when performing.

Future of Lucidity
------------------
So, what will become of Lucidity? At the moment, I'm not sure. I'm still quite
content using Ableton Live for performing music at the moment, but it has a
number of frustrations, namely when searching and browsing for music. Some of
the ideas behind Lucidity are likely to be reborn in an add-on to make
additional sequencers more useful.

*Update*: In mid-2012, "The One" was announced. As of early 2013, it is still
in private beta. Based on my limited experience with the software, I'm very
happy to see that other folks have stumbled across the same idea. I will be
eagerly watching The One's progress, as it has fundamentally the same workflow
as Lucidity had imagined.
